docs: Add README and getting started docs (#6)
hookdeck/terraform-provider-hookdeck: templates/guides/register-external-webhooks.md

---
page_title: "Register External Webhooks"
description: "Register External Webhooks with Hookdeck Provider"
---

# Register External Webhooks

Hookdeck Terraform provider provides a solution to help register and unregister webhooks with your providers. It's provider-agnostic, so as long as there's an endpoint to manage webhooks programmatically, you should be able to configure it as part of your workflow.

## Setup

> For example, let's say you're using Stripe for payment and want to listen to `charge.succeeded` and `charge.failed` webhook events. Let's start with connection to start listening to incoming webhooks from Stripe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say you're using Stripe for payment and want to listen to `charge.succeeded` and `charge.failed` webhook events.

Let's start with a Hookdeck connection to start listening to incoming webhooks from Stripe:
```

```hcl
resource "hookdeck_source" "stripe" {
  name = "stripe"
}

resource "hookdeck_destination" "payment_service" {
  name = "my_destination"
  url  = "https://api.my-app.com/webhooks/stripe"
}

resource "hookdeck_connection" "stripe_payment_service" {
  source_id      = hookdeck_source.stripe.id
  destination_id = hookdeck_destination.payment_service.id
}
```

## Register Stripe webhook

> Stripe provides API endpoints to [create a new webhook](https://stripe.com/docs/api/webhook_endpoints/create) and [delete existing webhook](https://stripe.com/docs/api/webhook_endpoints/delete) which we will use in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stripe provides API endpoints to [create a new webhook](https://stripe.com/docs/api/webhook_endpoints/create) and [delete existing webhooka](https://stripe.com/docs/api/webhook_endpoints/delete), which we will use in this example.
```

```hcl
resource "webhook_registration" "stripe" {
  provider = hookdeck

  register = {
    request = {
      method = "POST"
      url    = "https://api.stripe.com/v1/webhook_endpoints"
      headers = jsonencode({
        "content-type" = "application/json"
        authorization  = "Bearer <STRIPE_SECRET_KEY>"
      })
      body = jsonencode({
        url = hookdeck_source.stripe.url
        enabled_events = [
          "charge.failed",
          "charge.succeeded"
        ]
      })
    }
  }
  unregister = {
    request = {
      method = "DELETE"
      url    = "https://api.stripe.com/v1/webhook_endpoints/{{.register.response.body.id}}"
      headers = jsonencode({
        authorization  = "Bearer <STRIPE_SECRET_KEY>"
      })
    }
  }
}
```

> For many API, you will need the ID of the registered webhook to unregister. You can usually get the ID of the newly registered webhook from the register API response itself. Because of that, Hookdeck Terraform provider will save that response for use in the `unregister` flow. The string values when you configure your `unregister` property are string templates where you'll have access to `.register.response` data which is the HTTP response from the original registration API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For many APIs, you will need the ID of the registered webhook to unregister. You can usually get the ID of the newly registered webhook from the register API response itself. Because of that, the Hookdeck Terraform provider will save that response for use in the `unregister` flow. When configuring your `unregister` property, the string values are string templates where you'll have access to `.register.response` data, which is the HTTP response from the original registration API request.
```

## Use webhook secret to verify with Hookdeck

Another way you can use the `webhook_registration` resource is to configure Hookdeck [source verification](https://hookdeck.com/docs/signature-verification) as part of your Terraform workflow. With the `webhook_registration` resource above, you can now configure Hookdeck verification like so:

```hcl
resource "hookdeck_source_verification" "stripe_verification" {
  source_id = hookdeck_source.stripe.id
  verification = {
    stripe = {
      webhook_secret_key = jsondecode(webhook_registration.stripe.register.response).body.secret
    }
  }
}
```

> As mentioned in the section earlier, the provider will save the response from the registration request to be used later (unregister flow). For some API, that response will also contain some secret information that you can use for verification purposes. As the `webhook_registration` is provider-agnostic, it saves the response in a strigified JSON with 2 fields "body" and "headers". When using that data in the unregistration flow, the provider constructs that response and use it in the template for you to use. When using it in other resources, you will need to decode the stringified JSON using [`jsondecode`](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsondecode) like the example above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the section earlier, the provider will save the response from the registration request to be used later (unregister flow). For some APIs, that response will also contain secret information you can use for verification purposes. As the `webhook_registration` is provider-agnostic, it saves the response in a stringified JSON with two fields, "body" and "headers". When using that data in the unregister flow, the provider constructs that response and uses it in the template. When using the response in other resources, you will need to decode the stringified JSON using [`jsondecode`](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsondecode) like the example above.
```
